# Street-Management-System-Vehicle-Speed-Tracking-and-Smart-Street-Lighting

This project elucidates the implementation of Smart Street Management System, which includes an automated Smart Street Lighting System followed by implementation of an innovative Vehicle Speed Detection system. Part A of the proposed system is **“Smart Street Lighting”** which is a power-saving substitute for the manual light switching system. It involves lights that adapt to surrounding illumination and operate by motion detection. The circuit is based on light intensity detection, under low illumination, the resistance of the LDR falls allowing current to flow through the circuit and whenever motion is detected, the LEDs light up. During daytime, the resistance of the LDR rises restricting the flow of current through the circuit, therefore, the LEDs will be turned off. This allows for reduction in power consumption and an efficient automated control over street lights requiring no manual handling.

Second part of this project deals with a **“Vehicle Speed Detection”** System. Over-speeding of vehicles has become one of the major causes for accidents and loss of many lives these days as people, especially the younger generation, have an incautious and reckless attitude towards road safety. Part-B of this project presents a system, developed for over-speeding detection and alerting offenders as well as authorities by turning on the buzzer automatically. Presently, RADAR guns or LIDARS are extensively used for overspeed detection, but it requires a person to pull the trigger for detecting the speed. In this work, it has been proved that automation provides efficient performance compared to a human handled system.
